Welcome back everyone to the solution for probability Interview Question number four.
So just to review this question you had to jar's 50 red marbles and 50 blue marbles and you needed to
place all the marbles into the jars such that when you blindly pick one marble out of one randomly chosen
jar you maximize the chances that it will be red.
So how do we actually do this.
Well let's label the jars number one and number two in jar number 1.
You can go ahead and place just one red marble and then place all the rest of the marbles into a jar.
Number two then the outcome red versus blue.
It's going to take two steps.
First there are 50 50 odds or a 50 percent chance that your friend is going to select door number one.
So if he does select juror number one then there's a 100 percent chance of a red outcome since there's
only one red marble to pick from in that first jar.
Then there's also a 50 percent chance that he will choose Jarre to instead.
If your friend picks Juror number two then there are 49 to 50 odds or 49 out of ninety nine which is
going to be forty nine point four nine for nine repeating percent chance of choosing red.
So on a single trial the odds of picking a red marble outcome is as follows.
First there's the 100 percent probability multiplied by the half chance of choosing your number one
then you're going to add the probability for the second char which is going to be picking the red marble
out of the rest of them which is going to be for nine out of ninety nine marbles multiplied by the one
half chance of picking that char.
So that gives you seventy four point seventy five percent chance and that's the way you can maximize
your chances of picking the red marble.
It's a bit of a tricky question because sometimes intuitively you just think oh I will split them and
the best chances I have are 50 50.
You can actually increase your chances by just taking that red marble and putting it into a single jar.
That way you basically lock up that jar as a 100 percent red pick and you don't have to worry about
that anymore with the rest of them being in the other jar.
So again this is the best way you can maximize your chances of picking a red marble.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.